Editorial review: Document WebXR visibilitymaskchange event (#43975)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/xrsession/visibilitymaskchange_event/index.md

---
title: "XRSession: visibilitymaskchange event"
short-title: visibilitymaskchange
slug: Web/API/XRSession/visibilitymaskchange_event
page-type: web-api-event
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.XRSession.visibilitymaskchange_event
---

{{APIRef("WebXR Device API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The **`visibilitymaskchange`** event is sent to an {{domxref("XRSession")}} when the portion of an {{domxref("XRView")}} visible to the user changes — that is, the portion not hidden by the mask. This enables performance improvements by allowing the browser to draw only the visible part of the updated view. The required information to draw the update is contained in the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} event object.

Reviewer: See https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43975/changes#r3215941539 - it isn't clear to me how this works, since events are handled by user code, but it talks about browser behaviour.

> The required information to draw the update is contained in the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} event object.

As I understand it the event _is-a_ `XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent` - this is an odd way to say that. Am I missing something?

Author: I've tried shifting the explanation around a bit.

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js-nolint
addEventListener("visibilitymaskchange", (event) => { })

onvisibilitymaskchange = (event) => { }
```

## Event type

An {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}}. Inherits from {{domxref("Event")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}}

> ## Event properties

Reviewer: I think I need to update the template. An event is just an interface. This should be instance properties.

Author: To be honest, I'd rather just not link all the properties again in the event page. It seems repetitive to me.

Reviewer: Yes, but is it _useful_ to the reader? If you argue that you always look at the actual event and then go to the interface for more detail, then no.

If you think that people look at the event interface and then want to know where that interface is used, then yes.

I think that you're probably right that most people don't need this. I find it useful personally though. 

Anyhow, resolving.

_In addition to the properties listed below, properties from the parent interface, {{domxref("Event")}}, are available._

- {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.eye", "eye")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The eye the mask applies to.
- {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.index", "index")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The index of the current {{domxref("XRView")}} in the {{domxref("XRViewerPose.views")}} array.
- {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.indices", "indices")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : An array of indices specifying the vertices in the `vertices` array that should be drawn to display the currently visible part of the scene displayed in the `XRView`. If this array is empty, the whole region of the `XRView` will be drawn.
- {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.session", "session")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The {{domxref("XRSession")}} to which the event refers.
- {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.vertices", "vertices")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : An array of coordinates representing the vertices required to draw the entire scene displayed in the `XRView`. If this array is empty, the whole region of the `XRView` will be drawn.

> 

Reviewer: And what also not in the template, but is always appreciated is a section "Events" that lists the actual events fired from this type. 

I'm doing something similar in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/44047/changes#diff-3b2cb04c1d5d238054f6807ab130a07a1f1bb8ca392b0a092c0073354f523f94

Author: Yup, we discussed that one.

---
title: "XRSession: visibilitymaskchange event"
short-title: visibilitymaskchange
slug: Web/API/XRSession/visibilitymaskchange_event
page-type: web-api-event
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.XRSession.visibilitymaskchange_event
---

{{APIRef("WebXR Device API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The **`visibilitymaskchange`** event is sent to an {{domxref("XRSession")}} when the portion of an {{domxref("XRView")}} visible to the user changes, for example, specified by the eye that the view is relevant to, and the vertices of a visibility mask that defines the visible part of the view, available in the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} event object.

Reviewer: The English is garbled from the "for example". I would put a full stop before the "for example", and rewrite. I think you might have been after something like ...

```suggestion
The **`visibilitymaskchange`** event is sent to an {{domxref("XRSession")}} when the portion of an {{domxref("XRView")}} visible to the user changes.

Note that the view is associated with a particular eye, and the part that is visible to the user is defined by a visibility mask. For more information see the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} interface.
```

Reviewer: PS from another case that works:

> visible to the user after the view has changed, for example by specifying the eye that the view is relevant to, and the vertices of a visibility mask that defines the visible part of the view. 

Still consider splitting the sentence

Author: Your suggestion works well; I'll just use that.
